---
title: Fraud Hub
description: The best way to prevent fraud is through sharing knowledge. We have created a hub of resources to prevent fraud & scams.
icon: heroicons:exclamation-triangle
image: https://www.ruralcrimewatch.ab.ca/application/files/7417/0673/4936/GettyImages-1473623784.jpg
nav: true
---

# Stay a Step Ahead of Fraud

Cases of fraud are exploding across Canada, but especially in Alberta. 22% of Albertans have been self-reported victims of fraud. Fraud tactics are becoming more advanced and easier to fall for.  Scammers are posing as figures of authority, such as government agencies and financial institutions, to fool and pressure us into giving away our personal and financial information. They are also online, pretending to be someone else on a dating app or sending phishing emails to our inboxes.

The best way to prevent yourself and those around you from becoming a victim of fraud is through sharing knowledge. You can know what to look for by remaining informed about the latest scams. Programs developed by Alberta Rural Crime Watch, like Wise Owl, keep seniors in particular informed about defending themselves against fraud. Here is some information on the most common scams and how to spot and guard against them.

:br

## Government & Institutional Scams

Navigating the ins and outs of our taxes, government laws, and institutional regulations can be confusing for any lifelong resident of Canada; it can be overwhelming for immigrants to our country. Unfortunately, criminals are taking advantage of this confusion by creating scams to gain access to your personal and financial information. It is essential to stay vigilant and protect your information from these scams.

:br

- Avoid These Canada Revenue Agency Scams
- Look Out for Border Agency Scams
- Bail Money Scam
- _**[Credit Card Scams to Avoid](https://upgradedpoints.com/credit-cards/30-credit-card-scams-to-avoid/)**_

:br

## Investment Scams

Investing your money can be stressful as you navigate the rise and fall of the markets and determine where and when to invest. There is also a lot of emotion tied to investing, which may impact our judgement and ability to spot a scam. It is important to be informed not only to get the best return on your investment but to also keep your money and information safe. With new investment strategies, tools and scams, we want to help you prepare for the rollercoaster called the stock market.

:br

- Artificial Intelligence: What to Consider When Using it to Invest
- Staying Ahead of Investment Scams
- Three Steps to Take Before Downloading an Investment App
- Social Media Investment Scams

:br

## Relationship Scams

How we meet and communicate with new friends and romantic partners is changing. While chat groups, dating apps, and other online platforms have made it easier to connect, they have also created another way for scammers to take advantage of you. It is easy for them to mask their appearance, their location and more to trick you into sending them money and your personal information. Remain aware of the relationship scams out there.

:br

- Navigating Online Dating & Preventing Romance Scams
- Grandparent Scam
- _**[The Facts on Romance Scams](https://www.rcmp-grc.gc.ca/en/gazette/just-the-facts-romance-scams)**_
- _**[Anti Fraud Centre - Romance Scams](https://antifraudcentre-centreantifraude.ca/scams-fraudes/romance-rencontre-eng.htm)**_

:br

## Online Scams

More of our lives are moving online, from how we communicate to how we do our banking. Whether you are an online native or you are more comfortable having a friend or family member help you, it is important to be mindful of online scams and fraud tactics. Criminals are using phishing, online shopping, tech support and other scams to gain access to your sensitive information and accounts. Stay vigilant when you open your emails or order items online.

:br

- Navigating Technology and Avoiding Online Scams
- Common Holiday Scams
- Safety Tips on Phishing Scams
- _**[Little Black Book of Scams](chrome-extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://www.ruralcrimewatch.ab.ca/application/files/3816/7535/2966/Little_Black_Book_of_Scams.pdf)**_
- Gift Card Scams
- _**[Credit Card Scams to Avoid](https://upgradedpoints.com/credit-cards/30-credit-card-scams-to-avoid/)**_

:br

## Wise Owl

With the advancement of technology and the techniques scammers use, all members of our community must be knowledgeable and prepared. Wise Owl is a program created by Alberta Provincial Rural Crime Watch to help keep the elderly members of our rural communities educated and safe. Through our educational sessions and the help of our knowledgeable volunteers, seniors have the tools to protect themselves and those around them from scams.

:br

- Keeping Seniors Informed & Safe
- _**[Book a Wise Owl Presentation](https://www.ruralcrimewatch.ab.ca/crime/fraud-prevention/wise-owl)**_
- Test Your Fraud Knowledge
